# DDOLayoutEditor
Requires .NET 4.0!
If you are running in Windows XP, you must have SP3 to install .NET 4.0

--------------------------------
Quick Usage:
--------------------------------

1) In DDO, /ui layout save testLayout 
2) Open program, Open file, choose testLayout.layout 
3) Move stuff around
4) Save 
5) In DDO, /ui layout load testLayout 

--------------------------------
It currently features:
--------------------------------

Load any of your exported layouts
UI Elements are grouped based on common functionality
* Items can have a friendly name (note 1)
* Items can be specific colors assigned (note 1)
Items can be resized
* If the element supports resizing (note 1)
* Snap to grid while resizing (hold control to bypass grid snapping)
* Some elements enforce a minimum size (per the UI)
Move items using the mouse.
* Click an item to select it
* If snapping is enabled item will snap to a grid based on top left corner
* If the shift key is pressed, item will snap based on the top right corner
* If the control key is pressed, snapping will be ignored
* If control and shift is pressed, the item will attempt to snap based on adjacent elements (needs tweaking)
Move items using the arrow keys
* Click an item to select it
* Pressing the arrow keys will snap it up/left/right/down (if snapping is enabled)
* If the control key is pressed, it will move it 1px at a time
Snap Grid
* Can toggle snapping
* Can change grid line color and transparency
* Can change grid size
Background
* Can specify an image (try it with a screen capture of DDO with or without the UI visible!)
* Can specify a color
Go Full Screen! - Alt-Enter

Note 1: Groups/Windows are defined in groups.xml. As new windows are discovered, they will need to be added to it. I found these out by looking at a layout file generated by DDO. I haven't defined all the windows. If they are unknown or not yet finished, they are added to the TODO group.

--------------------------------
Observations:
--------------------------------

Chat Window
* Seems like there is some sort of margin or padding.  The item in the editor seems larger than the one in the game.

Social Window
* Width in layout seems a little larger than what it actually is inside the game
* Seems to be like character sheet where there is space on the side for side tabs, not none are visible

The DDO client currently does not save layout information for:
* Main Menu	
* Shop
* Expanded Map?
* Character Dialog (talking to people)
* Hirelings?
* Probably More

--------------------------------
Acknowledgements and Licenses
--------------------------------
Makes use of the WPF Extended Toolkit:
* https://github.com/xceedsoftware/wpftoolkit

Various code snippets
* http://denisvuyka.wordpress.com/2007/10/13/the-wpf-resizing-adorner-for-canvas/
* http://siderite.blogspot.com/2010/07/openfiledialog-image-filter-string.html
* http://richardwilburn.wordpress.com/2009/01/28/docking-wpf-controls-to-right-or-bottom-of-a-canvas/
* Many more
